WASHINGTON — Senators Mike Lee of Utah and Jerry Moran of Kansas declared on Monday night that they would oppose the Senate Republican bill to repeal the Affordable Care Act, killing for now a seven-year-old promise to overturn President Barack Obama’s signature domestic achievement. 
The announcement by the senators, both Republicans, left their leaders two votes short of the necessary tally to begin debate on their bill to dismantle the health law. Two other Republican senators, Rand Paul of Kentucky and Susan Collins of Maine, had already said they would not support a procedural step to begin debate. 
“There are serious problems with Obamacare, and my goal remains what it has been for a long time: to repeal and replace it,” Mr. Moran said in a statement. “This closed-door process unfortunately has yielded” the Senate repeal bill, which, he asserted, “failed to repeal the Affordable Care Act or address health care’s rising costs.” 
In his own statement, Mr. Lee said of the bill, “In addition to not repealing all of the Obamacare taxes, it doesn’t go far enough in lowering premiums for middle class families; nor does it create enough free space from the most costly Obamacare regulations.” 
By jumping together, Mr. Moran and Mr. Lee ensured that no one would be the definitive “no” vote. 
With four solid votes against the bill, Republican leaders were faced with two options: go back and try to rewrite the bill in a way that could secure 50 Republican votes, a seeming impossibility at this point, or do as Senator Mitch McConnell, the Republican leader, had promised and team with Democrats to draft a narrower, bipartisan measure to fix the flaws in the Affordable Care Act that both parties acknowledge. 
The Senate Democratic leader, Chuck Schumer of New York, responded to the announcement by urging his Republican colleagues to begin anew and, this time, undertake a bipartisan effort. 
“This second failure of Trumpcare is proof positive that the core of this bill is unworkable,” Mr. Schumer said. “Rather than repeating the same failed, partisan process yet again, Republicans should start from scratch and work with Democrats on a bill that lowers premiums, provides long-term stability to the markets and improves our health care system.” 
The opposition from Mr. Paul and Ms. Collins was expected, so Mr. McConnell had no margin for error as he unveiled the latest version of his bill. He survived through the weekend and until Monday night without losing another of his members — though some expressed misgivings or, at the very least, uncertainty. 
Mr. McConnell had wanted to move ahead with a vote this week, but was forced to abandon that plan after Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, underwent surgery last week. That unexpected setback gave the forces that opposed the bill more time to pressure undecided senators. On Friday, the health insurance lobby, which had been largely silent during the 
fight, came off the sidelines to blast a key part of the latest Senate bill, saying it was unworkable, would send premiums soaring and would cost millions of Americans their insurance. 
Mr. McConnell has now failed twice in recent weeks to keep his caucus together for a planned vote. He first wanted to hold a vote in late June, only to postpone it after running into opposition. 
Mr. Lee, one of the most conservative members of the Senate, had championed a proposal that would allow insurers to sell low-cost, stripped-down plans — an idea that ended up being added to the latest version of Mr. McConnell’s bill. But the language added was not quite what Mr. Lee had been advocating, his office said after the bill was released. 
Mr. Moran faced pressure at home about how the bill would affect Kansas, including its rural hospitals. The Kansas Hospital Association said last week that the latest version “comes up short, particularly for our most vulnerable patients.” 

WASHINGTON — President Trump vigorously defended an all-but-dead Senate health care bill on Wednesday, pressing Republicans to stay in Washington and improve the proposal or risk being tagged as supporting the current system, which he called a “big lie.”

At a lunch at the White House with Republican senators, Mr. Trump gave the latest in a series of shifting reactions to the collapse this week of the Senate’s health care overhaul effort, and what amounted to a belated sales pitch for a measure that Republicans have privately complained he has done little to champion.

It was a stark turnabout from earlier this week, when Mr. Trump said Congress should let President Barack Obama’s signature legislation fail and blame Democrats.

Instead, Mr. Trump said Republicans should get back to work, ignoring clear indications from Capitol Hill that not enough Republicans are willing to support the proposal.

“Any senator who votes against starting debate is really telling America that you’re fine with Obamacare,” he said.

It was a pep talk that could have been more effective in the last several days as Republican leaders desperately sought support.

The prospect of repealing the health care law appeared to be doomed on Tuesday when an 11th-hour effort to force a vote on the matter failed and three Republican senators said they would not vote to repeal the law without a replacement.

Mr. Trump has never been completely engaged with the health care repeal-and-replace efforts after his initial foray with House members in April failed.

He has occasionally cajoled members of Congress, primarily through his Twitter feed, but he has seemed hesitant at best. And his advisers have been divided on how involved he should be, leaving Mr. Trump to weigh in sporadically.

On Wednesday, Mr. Trump used a combination of humor and thinly veiled threats to pressure wavering senators.

Sitting beside Senator Dean Heller, a Nevada Republican who has been outspoken about his concerns with the proposal, Mr. Trump said: “Look, he wants to remain a senator, doesn’t he? O.K., and I think the people of your state, which I know very well, I think they’re going to appreciate what you hopefully will do.”

Mr. Trump also alluded to several conservatives who came out against the measure Monday night, saying he had been “surprised” because the senators were “my friends.”

“My friends — they really were and are,” he said. “They might not be very much longer, but that’s O.K.”
WASHINGTON — President Trump was fed up with the grind of health care legislation, and at a dinner with Republican senators on Monday at the White House, he let them know it. He told the lawmakers how annoyed he was with one Republican who was not there, Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky, who had gone on television over the weekend to oppose a Senate health care bill that once held the promise of victory for Mr. Trump.It is one thing to vote no, Mr. Trump told the group, according to one of the guests. It is another, the president said, to go on all of the Sunday shows and complain about it.The scene on Monday night was an exasperating end for Mr. Trump to a month of negotiations between the White House and Senate Republicans in an effort to repeal the Affordable Care Act, President Barack Obama’s signature domestic legacy.        
The Senate bill, which faced a near-impossible path forward after the House passed its version of the legislation in May, was ultimately defeated by deep divisions within the party, a lack of a viable health care alternative and a president who, one staff member said, was growing bored in selling the bill and often undermined the best-laid plans of his aides with a quip or a tweet.Governors, especially Republicans from states that had expanded Medicaid under the Affordable Care Act, also played a vital role in the demise of Mr. Trump’s plans. “In our state,” said Gov. John Kasich of Ohio, a Republican, “many people on Medicaid expansion are on the program for just a year and a half, until they get a job. They are not on it for 20 years. They are not lazy or committing fraud.”The effort by Senate Republican leaders to remake the nation’s health care system — which went well beyond the perimeters of Mr. Obama’s health care law — was in retrospect doomed from the moment it began, even with the wind of an unlikely win in the House at their backs.The Senate measure would impose annual caps on Medicaid spending, ending what has been an open-ended entitlement for the poor and disabled. The process bypassed committees, any public airing of the bill or formal bill drafting. Instead, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, farmed out the remaking of 17 percent of the economy to a small group of senators, all Republican white men. The bad first look did not fade.But under fire for the all-male panel, Mr. McConnell reduced it to little more than a kaffeeklatsch, open to anyone who wanted to come by and chat health care.Republican senators, reflecting the divide in the party, quickly formed two camps: those who wanted to squeeze hundreds of billions of dollars out of Medicaid, and those, mainly from states that had expanded the program, who wanted to preserve it. Both groups held constant meetings, with many usually conservative senators like Jerry Moran of Kansas and Charles E. Grassley of Iowa sliding into the moderate group’s gatherings to quietly voice their own concerns.
 Senator Rob Portman of Ohio, in particular, formed the spine of opposition to the bill, and pushed for changes to reduce the cuts to Medicaid. In his state, more than 700,000 low-income people have gained coverage through the expansion of Medicaid under the Affordable Care Act.Senator Susan Collins of Maine criticized the Trump administration’s often specious descriptions of what the bill would actually do, bolstering other more quiet critics’ resolve.“The only change that Obamacare made in Medicaid was to give states the option of expanding coverage with increased federal funding,” said Ms. Collins, who opposed the Senate legislation. “Yet the Senate bill would have cut hundreds of billions of dollars from this program, imposed an entirely new formula and reduced the reimbursement rate below the cost of medical inflation.”The changes, she added, “would have been made without the Senate holding a single hearing to evaluate the consequences on some of our most vulnerable citizens, rural hospitals and nursing homes.”Mr. McConnell in the meantime did not have enough reliable allies on the right. Mr. Paul made it clear from the start that he would not support anything but a full repeal of the law. Senators Mike Lee of Utah and Ted Cruz of Texas had repeated conversations with Republican leaders and the White House about how to make the bill sufficiently conservative. Senator Dean Heller, Republican of Nevada, dealt an early blow by suggesting he would not support the bill.Making matters worse for the White House, the bill had virtually no support from health care, insurance, patient advocate and disease groups, and was harshly judged by the Congressional Budget Office. Grass-roots opposition to the bill — aided by Democrats like Senator Chuck Schumer of New York — swayed members of Congress in a way rarely seen on Capitol Hill.At the annual meeting of the American Hospital Association in May, Mr. Schumer, the Senate Democratic leader, urged hospital executives to mobilize their employees in an effort to defeat the bill, which had been approved by the House just a few
 days earlier.“You have every right to express your outrage on behalf of the people who you take care of and your employees,” Mr. Schumer told hospital leaders. “Everyone needs to speak up and let their elected officials know how bad this bill is.”The final efforts for the bill began to unravel over the weekend as several Republican senators began to balk at the legislation. Although the Trump administration had dispatched Seema Verma, the new administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, to the summer meeting of the National Governors Association in Providence, R.I., to try to persuade governors — and, by extension, the senators in their states — of the bill’s merits, the governors remained unmoved.By Saturday night, aides to Senator John McCain of Arizona, who is recovering from surgery, announced that he was unable to return from Phoenix this week, leaving Republican leaders another vote short.By Monday night, as Mr. Trump was meeting with the group of Republican senators at the White House — not one of whom was on the fence about the bill — Mr. Moran and Mr. Lee, two senators who were on the fence, issued statements saying they would not support it, a catastrophe for the White House.Late Monday, Mr. McConnell responded by vowing to pass a measure to repeal the Affordable Care Act now, then work on a replacement over the next two years. But on Tuesday, three Republican senators — Ms. Collins, Shelley Moore Capito of West Virginia and Lisa Murkowski of Alaska — told Mr. McConnell they would not support his last-ditch effort.Ms. Capito has generally been an ally of Republican leaders on even really tough votes and once told colleagues that the nearly 180,000 people on Medicaid in her state outnumbered the total number of people who had voted for her.On Tuesday in Kansas, citizen-activists like Courtney Eiterich, 42, of Lenexa, who has multiple sclerosis, were celebrating outside Mr. Moran’s office in Olathe. “I’ve never done this level of political activism before,” said Ms. Eiterich, who had been
 dogging Mr. Moran for months. “But if I’m not speaking out, who’s going to do it?”Mr. Kasich, who had been against the bill, was pleased with the outcome on Tuesday, and recalled conversations he had with Mr. Portman.“I told him all the time, this is not just about opiates, though opiates are a big part of it,” Mr. Kasich said. “It’s also about people who suffer mental illness or chronic illness. Rob was trying to figure out how to be constructive, but at the same time, he didn’t want to be taken for granted in terms of his vote.”Patient advocates, who had major concerns about the bill, were relieved.“We joined together in January over a plate of breakfast burritos, so we call ourselves the burrito coalition,” said Sue Nelson, a vice president of the American Heart Association. “We wrote letters, we brought in patients, we talked to congressional staff until we were blue in the face. We provided members of Congress with hundreds and thousands of stories from patients to let them know how critical it was to preserve affordable health care for their constituents.”Now what Mr. Trump once described as “an easy” process appears destined to stall his policy agenda, and has damaged his diminished standing on Capitol Hill.Still, the White House is not giving up. Late on Tuesday, Sean Spicer, the White House press secretary, announced that Mr. Trump was inviting all Republican senators to the White House on Wednesday — to talk about health care.
